# WordPie
WordPie is a word game similar to ***Wordle***, where the user has to guess a secret word, using colour clues provided by the program after each guess. A total of six guesses are allowed. The program has three different playing modes :
1. A manual mode, where the computer picks a random secret word from its word list, and the player has to try and guess what it is, using the colour clues provided after each guess. This is similar to the online version, except that you are not limited to one play each day.
2. An automatic mode, where the computer uses its internal algorithm to work out what the secret word is. In a test, the program solved 259 games out of 269, a success rate of just over 96%. The number of correct games in a row varied from 4 to 98. As a game, this mode isn't much use, but it's quite interesting to see how quickly the program can solve the puzzle, and the word guesses that it uses. The program has a debug option which prints out some details of its calculations to the console while in automatic mode, when selected.
3. A mixed mode, which is used to solve puzzles generated on other machines or websites, particularly the official ***Wordle*** website. In this mode, the computer generates the first guess, which the player then fills in on the website game grid. This will then return the relevant colour clues, which the player then duplicates in this program, before getting the computer to select the next guess. And so on for all the guesses. The program does sometimes fail to get the correct word, as there are differences between the word list used here and the word lists used by other programs/websites. Also, this program doesn't always get the secret word, anyway (see mode 2 above).
### Versions, etc.
The program is written in Python (version 3.7.11) and Pandas, with the front-end screens designed and written using the PAGE GUI designer by Don Rozenberg.<br><br>
The word list used by the program has approximately 2,500 5-letter words, and has the option to add words that are not on the list, when they are identified during play. In particular, the word list is missing quite a few plurals. It also uses a table of letter frequencies in English words (not limited to 5-letter ones), and this is used to generate frequency scores for all the words in the list. In automatic or mixed mode, the **first** guess selected will be from the highest-frequency words; subsequent guesses will be from the entire list.
### Requirements
- tkinter is required, but this is a part of the Python distribution, so shouldn't be an issue.
- The program should work OK with any recent version of Python. It hasn't been tested on anything prior to version 3.7, but there isn't anything in the code that should cause problems.
- Pandas is also required. This will be available by default with an Anaconda install, but a pure Python installation may require a separate installation of Pandas.
### Installation
Provided that the above requirements are satisfied, just copy all of the files into a new folder on your machine. Make sure that the two csv files and the ico file are also present, as well as the code files. Then just run ***wordpie_gui.py*** as you would any other Python program.
